A conversation with Elon Musk is
probably one of the most unpredictable
and most testing experiences a
journalist can have. At least that's how
it proved for me. What you're about to
hear was recorded in May 2025 at
Bloomberg's Qatar Economic Forum. Elon
Musk was at that time still working with
the Trump administration running Doge,
the Department for Government
Efficiency. It was a few months on from
his big pledge to cut $2 trillion from
the US federal budget. So I wanted to
ask him how that was going and about his
companies Tesla and Starlink among them.
And here's what actually happened when
we spoke. [music]
[music]
Elon Musk, welcome to Qatar Economic
Forum. How are you?
>> Thank you for having me. I'm fine. How
are you?
>> Very well, thank you. And very pleased
to have you with us. You know, among
those here in the audience in DHA are
some you will know, people who have
backed you financially over the years.
Since you last spoke here in 2022, a lot
has changed in your life. You're not
only running multiple companies, you
were doing that then, but now you also
have a role in government. So first of
all, I hope you won't mind if from time
to time I have to move you from one
topic to another because we have a lot
to cover in the time we have. That will
be all right.
>> Okay. Well, let's start then with
exactly the fact that you now have this
combination of being a CEO and having a
role as a government adviser. Tell me
about your week. How does it work?
What's the split of your time?
>> Well, I travel a lot. So, I was in
Silicon Valley yesterday.
morning. I was in LA yesterday evening.
I'm in Austin right now. I'll be in DC
tomorrow. I'll be there uh after having
dinner with the president tomorrow
night, I believe. Um and then uh
whole bunch of cabinet secretary
meetings and then uh back to Silon
Valley on Thursday night.
>> But I mean the balance of your time is
it is it well clearly it's a lot. But is
it still the case as you said a while
ago that it's about 1 to two days a week
on your government work?
>> Yeah, that's correct.
>> And what does that mean for your
corporate life? Because if we start with
Tesla, the company has suffered in
recent months what you've called
blowback.
So what is your plan for turning that
around, the declining sales picture, and
by what stage do you think you're going
to be able to turn it around?
Oh, it's already turned around.
>> Give me some evidence for that. I've
just been looking at the sales figures
for Europe in April, which show very
significant declines in the big markets.
>> Uh Europe is our weakest market. We're
strong everywhere else. Um so, uh our
sales are are doing doing well at this
point. Um we don't anticipate any any
meaningful sales shortfall. And um
the you know the obviously the stock
market recognizes that since we're now
back over a trillion dollars in market
cap. So um clearly the market is aware
of the situation. So it's it's already
turned around
>> but sales still down compared to this
time last year
>> in Europe.
>> In Europe. Okay. And
>> yes but but that's that's true of of all
manufacturers.
There's no exceptions.
Does that mean that you're not going to
be able
>> Does that mean European is quite weak?
>> Okay. But you would acknowledge,
wouldn't you, that what you are facing,
okay, let's just take it as Europe. What
you are facing is a significant problem.
This Tesla is an incredibly aspirational
brand. People identified with it. It saw
it, they saw it being at the forefront
of the climate crisis. And now people
are driving around with stickers in
their cars saying, "I bought this before
we knew Elon was crazy."
And there are also people who are buying
buying it because uh Elon's crazy or
however they may view it. Um so yes,
we've lost some sales perhaps on the
left, but we've gained them on the
right. Uh the sales numbers at this
point uh are strong and uh we we see no
problem with demand. So what the and
>> I mean you you can just look at the
stock price the the if you want the best
insider information the um stock market
uh analysts have that and um a stock
wouldn't be trading near all-time highs
if uh it was not if things weren't in
good shape. They're fine. Don't worry
about it.
>> Okay. I I was citing sales figures ra
rather than share price. Well tell me
then how committed you are to Tesla. Do
you see yourself and are you committed
to still being the chief executive of
Tesla in 5 years time?
>> Yes.
>> No doubt about that at all.
>> Well, no, I might die.
[laughter]
>> Okay. Short of that.
>> I can't be see if I'm dead. So, there's
a slight amount of
>> Does does that mean that the value of
your pay doesn't have any bearing on
your decision?
Um
well that's not really a subject subject
of discussion in this forum. Um the
I think obviously there should be
compensation for if there's if something
incredible is done that compensation
should match um the that something
incredible was done. Um,
but I I'm I'm confident that uh whatever
the um whatever some activist posing as
a judge in Delaware happens to do will
not affect the future compensation.
>> This is the judge who twice struck down
the $56 billion pay package that was
that was awarded to you. I think the
value on the basis on the current value
of stock options. Yeah.
>> Not a judge. Not a judge. the activist
who is cosplaying a judge in a Halloween
costume.
>> Okay, that that's your characterization.
Um I think the val on the current value
of stock options I think the actual
>> justice according to the law
>> on the current value of stock options I
think the value of that pay package
stands at about hundred billion dollars.
Are you saying you are relaxed about the
value of your future pay package? Your
decision to be committed to Tesla for
the next 5 years as long as you are
still with us on this planet is
completely independent of pay.
>> No,
>> it's not independent. So pay is a
relevant factor then to your commitment
to Tesla.
>> Um
sufficient voting control such that um I
cannot be ousted by activist investors
is what matters to me. And I've said
this publicly many times. Um, but let's
not have this whole thing be a
discussion of my alleged pay. It's not a
money thing. It's a a reasonable control
thing over the future of the company,
especially if we're building uh
millions, potentially billions of
humanoid robots. Um, I can't be sitting
there u uh and wanting to get tossed out
by um for political reasons by
activists. That would be unacceptable.
That's all that matters.
>> Now, let's move on.
>> Okay. Well, just one question.
>> Let's move on.
Well, [panting]
one question before we move on to other
companies, which is that I wonder if
some of what you've has happened to
Tesla in the last few months, did you
take it personally?
>> Yes.
>> And did it make you regret any of or
think twice about your political
endeavors?
because it is
>> I mean I did I did what needed to be
done. Uh the the violent antibody
reaction. Um and I'm I'm not someone
who's ever committed violence. Um and
yet uh massive violence was committed
against my companies. Massive violence
was threatened against me.
Who are these people? Why would they do
that?
How wrong can they be? They're on the
wrong They're on the wrong side of
history.
And that's an evil thing to do. To go
and damage some po innocent person's
car,
to threaten to kill me. What's wrong
with these people? I've not harmed
anyone.
So,
something needs to be done about them,
and a number of them are going to
prison, and they deserve it.
>> More will. You're you're referring to
the attacks on Tesla showrooms, but I
think
>> yeah,
>> putting bullets into showrooms and
burning down cars is unacceptable.
>> Yeah,
>> those people will go to prison and the
people that funded them and organized
them will also go to prison. Don't
worry. But wouldn't you
>> I'm coming for you.
>> Wouldn't Wouldn't you
[applause]
>> But wouldn't Wouldn't you acknowledge
that some of the people who turned
against Tesla in Europe were were upset
at your politics and very few of them
would have been violent in any way? They
just objected to to what they saw you
say or do politically.
Well, it's certainly fine to object to
political things, but it's not it's not
fine to resort uh to violence and
hanging someone in effigy and death
threats. Um that's obviously not okay.
[clears throat] Um uh you know uh that's
absurd. Um that is uh in no way
justifiable at all
in any way, shape or form. And and uh
some of the the legacy media nonetheless
have sought to justify it which is
unconscionable. Shame on them. Okay,
let's talk about your other companies
then and other business areas. SpaceX, I
saw that you said in a speech at the
West Point uh military academy recently
that the future of warfare is AI and
drones and obviously defense is an
increasingly
booming sector with the state of the
world at the moment. Do you see SpaceX
moving into weaponized drones?
>> [laughter]
>> you certainly ask interesting questions
uh that are impossible to answer. Um so
SpaceX is uh
it's it's the space launch leader. So
SpaceX doesn't do drones. Uh SpaceX
builds rockets, satellites, and internet
terminals. Um so but SpaceX has has a a
very dominant position is space launch.
So of of the mass launch to orbit this
year, SpaceX will probably do 90%. Um,
China will do the rema half half of the
remaining amount, so 5% and the rest of
the world, including the rest of the US,
will do about 5%. So SpaceX will do
about 10 times as much as the rest of
the world combined or 20 times as much
as China, which is and China is doing
actually a very impressive job. Um the
reason for this is that we're putting
into into orbit uh the largest satellite
constellation the world has ever seen by
far. Um so I think at this point about
maybe approaching 80% of all active
satellites in orbit are SpaceX. Um and
they're providing global high high
bandwidth level connectivity uh
throughout the world. In fact this
connection is on a SpaceX connection. So
I think this is a very good thing um
because it means that we can um provide
lowcost high bandwidth internet to parts
of the world that don't have it or where
it's very expensive and I think the
single biggest thing you can do to lift
people out of poverty and help them
[clears throat] is giving them um an
internet connection um because once you
have the internet connection you can
learn anything for free on the internet
and you can also sell your goods and
services to the global market um and um
once you have knowledge um by the
internet and the ability to engage in
commerce um that this is going to
greatly improve quality of life for
people throughout the world and it has
um and I just like to thank anyone in
the audience who may have been helpful
in you know um with Starlink and and
getting it to to approved in their
country and I think it's doing a lot of
good and the countries that have
approved it which is I think at this
point 130 countries are very happy with
Um I I I don't currently anticipate
SpaceX getting into the weapons
business. That's certainly that's not an
aspiration. We're frequent we're
frequently asked uh to do to do weapons
programs, but we have thus far declined.
>> Do you envisage SpaceX or indeed
Starlink as a separate entity publicly
listing in the near future or at all?
Um, it's possible that Starink uh may go
public at some point in the future
>> and what would be the what would be the
time frame?
>> What kind of time frame you consider?
>> No, I mean no rush. No, I'm in no rush
to go public. um the the you know public
is I guess a way to um you know
potentially make more money but at the
expense of a lot of public company
overhead and inevitably um a whole bunch
of lawsuits which are very annoying. Um
so really something needs to be done
about the shareholder shareholder
derivative lawsuits uh in the US uh
because it allows uh
uh plaintiffs law firms who don't
represent the shareholders to pretend
that they represent the shareholders by
getting a puppet plaintiff with a few
shares uh to initiate a massive lawsuit
against the company. And the irony being
that extreme irony uh that uh even if
the class they purport to represent were
to vote that they don't want the
lawsuit, the lawsuit would still
continue. So how can it be a a class
action representing a class if the class
were against it? And that's the bizarre
situation we've got in the US. It needs
it's a dire need of reform and as as
anyone who's run a public company
experienced this. It's an absurd
situation that needs to change. Well, do
you think Donald Trump might change it?
You've certainly got his ear. I imagine
that you've put this to him. Is this
something you're trying to change before
any Starlink IPO?
>> Well, it would it would need a law to be
passed. Um the the trouble being that
you need 60 Senator Senate votes and the
Democrats um will vote against it. Um
the um the the the plaintiff's bar is I
believe the second largest contributor
to the Democratic party.
That's the that's the issue. At the
state level, this can be solved. And and
I should say Texas recently passed a law
which um at this at least the state
level made
lawsuits much more reasonable because
you have to get at least one in 33
shareholders to agree that they are part
of a class of shareholders 3%.
>> This is a this will be will be really
help with privileged lawsuits.
>> Okay. Um let's talk about AI which is in
so many of your businesses and in all
our worlds in different ways. It's one
of the big changes the development of
generative AI since you last spoke um to
this forum 3 years ago. You're in this
space of course um with Grock which
almost everyone will know. You
co-founded Open AI and then left and
you've obviously got a legal battle um
with Open AI and Sam Orman. I wonder if
you could say something about the status
of that because you were together in
Saudi Arabia with the president last
week um with Sam Orman
>> in the same place at the same time was
in the in the neighborhood.
>> Okay. So does does that mean you are
pushing ahead with the lawsuit against
open AI?
>> Yes.
So, look, I came I came up with the name
OpenAI as an open-source um and as a
nonprofit and I funded a AI OpenAI for
the first roughly $50 million um and um
it was intended to be a nonprofit uh
open-source company and now is they're
trying to change that for their own
financial benefit uh into a for-profit
company that is closed source. So, this
would be like let's say you um you
funded a a nonprofit to help preserve
the Amazon rainforest, but instead of
doing that, they became a lumber
company, chopped down the forest, and
sold the wood. You'd be like, "Wait a
second, that's not what I funded.
That's opening eye."
>> They've made some changes to their
corporate structure though, haven't
they, since in in recognition of what of
what you've said. And
>> no, that's just what they told the
media.
>> Okay. um
[laughter]
part they have part they have partly
walked back their plan to restructure
the business. I guess that's made no
difference to how you feel about it. So
you determined to see them in court,
>> of course.
>> Okay. Well, that that's certainly going
to be one to watch. I also wanted to ask
you about AI and regulation because when
you were here last talking to John
Mikkelthweight, you had some pretty
strong words about the risk that AI
poses and you said that you really felt
what the US was missing was a federal AI
regulator that you know something along
the lines of the Food and Drug
Administration or the Federal Aviation
Administration. Now, you're clearly now
in a zone where you're more you're more
on the cutting regulation side than
wanting new regulators. So, has your
view changed on the need for an AI
regulator?
>> Well, it's not that I don't think there
should be regulators. Um, you can think
of regulators like referees on the on
the field in sports. Um, there should be
some number of referees, but that you
shouldn't have so many referees that you
can't kick the ball without hitting one.
Um so um in many in most uh apps uh
fields in the US the the regulatory
burden has grown over time to the point
where it's like having more referees
than than players on the field. Um so um
and this is a natural consequence of an
extended period of prosperity. It's very
important to uh appreciate this. This
has happened throughout history. When
you have an extended period of
prosperity with no existential war,
there's no there's no um cleansing
function for uh the for for unnecessary
um laws and regulations. [clears throat]
So what happens is that every year more
laws and more regulations are passed
because
you know legislators are going to
legislate, regulators are going to
regulate um and you will get the steady
pile of more and more laws and
regulations over time until everything
is illegal. And let me give you an
example of of a of a truly absurd
situation. Um, under the Biden
administration, SpaceX um, was sued for
not hiring asylum seekers in the US.
Now, the problem is it's actually
illegal for SpaceX under ITAR,
international traffic and arms
regulations to hire anyone who is not a
permanent resident of the United States
because the the premise being that they
will take advanced rocket technology and
return to their home country if they're
not a permanent resident. So, we're
simultaneously
uh in a situation where it is illegal to
hire asylum asylum seekers and is also
uh illegal to hire asylum seekers and
the Biden's Department of Justice chose
to prosecute us despite both paths being
illegal. Damned if you do, damned if you
don't.
>> But my question was specifically about a
regulator for AI, which you said 3 years
ago was needed. And you said we need to
be proactive on the regulation of AI
rather than reactive. Have you changed
your mind on that?
>> No, of course not. What what No, of
course not. What I'm saying is that
there should be some referees on the
field, a few a few referees, but you
shouldn't have a field jam-packed with
referees uh such that you cannot kick a
ball in any direction without hitting
one. So the the the the fields that have
been around for a long time such as
automotive um aerospace uh you know uh
the sort of food and drug industries are
overregulated
but the new fields like artificial
intelligence are underregulated. In fact
there is no regulator at all.
>> So so there should be you still think
that.
>> Yes. I'm simply saying which I think is
just basic common sense that you that
you want to have at least you you want
to have a few referees on the field. You
don't want to have an army of referees
um but you want to have a few referees
on on any given field in any given sport
or any given arena industrial arena um
to ensure help that public safety um is
taken care of. Um, but you don't want to
have so so there's a there's a there's a
a proper number of referees. Like like I
said, it's actually very easy to
visualize this when compared to sports.
If the if the whole field is packed with
with referees, that would look absurd.
Um, but if there were no referees at
all, your game's not going to be as
good.
>> Okay. So, let's then talk about your new
world, your your role advising
government. You are in this unique and
unprecedented position of having
billions of dollars worth of contracts
with the federal government yourself,
mostly through SpaceX, and also now an
insider's knowledge of it because of
Doge. Can you see that there is a
conflict of interest or a potential
conflict of interest in broad terms just
through that very fact?
>> Um, I I don't think so. Actually there
have been many advisers in uh throughout
history and in the US government and
others who have had
>> [clears throat]
>> uh economic interests um and I am simply
an adviser. I don't have formal power.
Um and that's it. Uh the president can
choose to uh accept my advice or not and
that's that's how it goes. Um if there's
a single contract that uh you know any
of my companies have received that
people think is somehow not uh was was
awarded improperly um it would
immediately be front page news um
[clears throat] to say the least um and
and if if if I hadn't mentioned it
certainly my competitors would. So if
you're not seeing that um then clearly
there's not a conflict of interest. Um
>> the uh yeah um
>> there's another way though to look at it
that for example you have many
competitors whether it's companies like
Boeing or companies who would like to do
more of the kind of work you do for NASA
Blue Origin Rocket Lab and because Doge
is in every federal government
department
you or people who work for Doge and and
you are the driving force behind it have
an insight into those companies affairs
and those companies relationships with
the federal government.
>> No, all we do is we um review uh the
organization to see if if the
organization has uh
departments that are no longer relevant.
Um and and then are the contracts that
that are being awarded good value for
money? In fact, frankly, the bar is not
particularly high. Is there any value
for money in a contract? Um and if
there's if there isn't then we make
recommendations to the secretary. The
secretary can then choose to uh take
those actions or not take those actions
and that's it. And then any action that
that that is as a function of Doge is
posted to the Doge website um and to the
Doge.gov or at at doge handle on the X
platform. So it's it's complete trans
transparency. Um and I have not seen any
case where uh to the best of my
knowledge there's even been an
accusation of conflict um because it is
it's completely and utterly transparent.
>> Um
>> that's it.
>> And what about the international
dimension now? Um let's think about
Starink. Starlink is obviously a very
very good internet service. It's sought
after all over the world. It's critical
to the front line in Ukraine. It has
also had more contracts coming its way
and there is some evidence that
companies are allowing access to it
because they want to be close to the
Trump administration and send the right
signal. So Bloomberg broke news today
that the South African government is
working around the rules on black
ownership in order to allow Starink and
that is being done on the eve of the
visit that President Ramaposa is going
to make to the White House. Do you
recognize that as a conflict of
interest?
No, of course not. First of all, you
should be questioning why is there why
are there racist laws in South Africa?
That's the first problem. That's what
you should be attacking. Um, it's
improper for there to be racist laws in
South Africa. Um, the whole whole idea
with what Nelson Mandela, who was a
great man, proposed was that all all
races should be on an equal footing in
South Africa. That's the right thing to
do, not to replace one set of racist
laws with another set of racist laws,
which is utterly wrong and improv. Um so
the that's that's the deal that all
races should be treated equally um and
there should be no preference given to
one or the other. Uh whereas there are
now 140 laws in South Africa that give u
a pre that basically um
give give strong preference to to if
you're black South African and um not
otherwise. And so now I'm in this absurd
situation where I was born in South
Africa but cannot get a license to
operate in Starink because I'm not
black. Well, it looks like that's about
its looks like right
>> looks like that's about to change.
>> I just asked you a question. Please
answer. Does that seem right to you?
>> Well, those rules were designed to bring
those rules were designed to bring about
an era of more economic equality in
South Africa and it looks like the
government has found a way around those
rules for you.
>> I ask you a question.
>> This is this is your interview. Everyone
wants to hear from you. your question.
Yes [clears throat] or no?
>> Racist laws. Yes or no?
>> No, not for me to answer. I have got a
question for you about uh about your
government work and the amount of
savings.
>> Why do you like racist laws?
>> This is not for me to answer. Come on
now. You wouldn't be trying to dodge a
question.
>> You have to ask question. My question
answer No, you answer mine.
>> I think I think if you I'm sure you can
have that conversation directly with the
South African government if you want to.
I want to ask you about the total Can't
believe it. That's not good.
>> I want to ask you about the total
amount.
>> I want to ask you about the total amount
that you're planning to save through
Doge's work. Before the election, you
said it was going to be at least 2
trillion. The number currently on
Doge.gov
is $170 billion. That's a big change.
What happened to the 2 trillion?
>> Would you expect it to happen
immediately?
>> Well, is it going to happen? because is
supposed to run till next July.
>> I mean your question is absurd in it
fundamental premise. Um are you assuming
that that on day you know within a few
months there's an instant 2 trillion
saved?
>> No, I'm not at all. I'm just asking is
that still your aim then? Is it still
your given the amount of time?
>> Have we not made good progress given the
amount of time?
>> That's exactly what I'm asking. So is it
still your aim to go from 170 billion to
2 trillion?
Uh
the the ability of Doge to operate is a
function of whether uh the government
and this includes the Congress uh is
willing to take our advice. Uh we are
not the dictators of the government, we
are the adviserss
and so we can we can advise and the
progress we've made thus far I think is
incredible. Doge team has done
incredible work. Um but uh the the
magnitude of this the savings is
proportionate to the support we get from
Congress um and from the uh executive
branch of the government in general. Um
so we're not the dictators, we are the
advisers. Um but thus far for advisers
we've the George team to their credit um
has made uh incredible progress.
You've talked about4 billion dollars a
day being saved, but that
>> that that won't get which is and I think
everyone can agree that combating waste
and inefficiency in government is a very
good thing, but if you add that up, it's
not going to get to two trillion over
the lifetime of Doge.
>> I'm sorry. The four billion the four
billion a day if DOA is going to run
till next July is not going to get you
to2 trillion dollars
>> but you still say it's your aim so we'll
take that as red
>> there's there's there's there's what
doge I mean I feel you're somewhat
trapped in the uh NPC dialogue tree of a
traditional ver uh journalist so it's
difficult to when I'm conversing with
someone who's trapped in the dialogue
tree of a conventional journalist
because it's like talking to a computer.
Um so uh Doge is an advisory group. We
are doing the best we can um as an
advisory group. Uh the progress made
thus far as an advisory group is
excellent. Um I don't think any advisory
group has done better in the history of
advisory groups of the government. Um
now uh we we we are we do not make the
laws nor do we control the the judiciary
nor do we control the executive branch.
We are simply advisers. In that context
we are doing very well. Um beyond that
we cannot uh do we cannot take action
beyond that because we are not u some
sort of imperial dictator of the
government. there are three branches of
government that uh that are to some
degree opposed to that level of cost
savings. Um but nonetheless uh let's
let's not uh criticize whether there's
uh 4 trillion um and instead look at the
fact that that 160 billion has been
saved and more will be saved too. And as
I said, I think everyone can agree that
cutting waste and indeed fraud in any
government and being responsible with
taxpayers money is a very good thing.
>> So yes,
>> I can see I can see that you're proud of
that work. Um I do want to ask you about
um US aid and the comments that Bill
Gates made the other day which and I
know that you called him
>> Yeah. He's my
>> I know you you've said that already. I
wondered Also, and I'm just
>> who does who does Bill Gates think he is
to make comments about the welfare of
children given that he was for a quote
of Jeffrey Epste?
>> Okay. Well,
he's he's he said he regrets those that
he spent a lot he spent a lot of his own
money on uh on philanthropy around the
world over the years. My question to you
is, have you looked at the data to check
if he might be right that the cuts to
USID might cost millions of lives?
>> Uh, yes. Um, I'd like him to show us any
any evidence whatsoever that that is
true. It's false. Um, the what what we
found with USAD cuts, and by the way,
they haven't all been cut. the the parts
of USA ID that we found to be uh even
slightly useful were transferred to the
State Department. They've not they've
not been deleted. They've simply been
transferred to the State Department. Um
but many many times over with USAD and
other organizations when we've when they
said oh well this is going to help you
know uh children or it's going to help
some um
uh disease eradication or something like
that. Um and then when we ask for any
evidence whatsoever um I say well please
connect us with this group of children
so we can talk to them and understand
more about their issue. We get nothing.
We we don't we don't even try to prevent
show we should come up with a with a
with a show orphan meaning like it's
sort of like well can we at least see a
few kids like where where are they if
they're in trouble we'd like to talk to
them and talk to their caregivers and
then we get as a response because it's
what we find is an enormous amount of of
fraud and graft
>> okay let me let me put this example
>> very little of it actually gets to the
kids if anything at Okay, let let me put
this example to you because you grew up
in South Africa so you'll know the
impact of HIV AIDS well and this is why
I asked about the data. The US led on
international efforts to combat HIV AIDS
treatment prevention and there's an
initiative called PEPAR which is
credited with saving 26 million lives in
the last 20 years. It was part of the
foreign aid freeze. Then there was a
limited waiver. its services are
disrupted and UN aid says if permanently
discontinued there will be another 4
million AIDS related deaths by 2029. So
if you look at that example which is
backed up by data in 2023 630,000 people
died of AIDS related illnesses then
perhaps Bill Gates's figures are not
wrong millions of lives could be lost.
Um I first of all the program the the
the AIDS uh uh um medication uh program
is continuing. So your fundamental
premise is wrong. It is continuing. Now
do you have another example?
>> Not Elon. Not in its entirety.
>> That is false.
>> Not in its entirety. the the program
there's a limited waiver and UN aids
have said that not all of the services
that were previously funded by USA ID
are continuing so that's that's why
that's why I put that example to you
>> okay well which ones aren't being funded
I'll fix it right now
>> for okay well actually they're all on
the UN UN aids website so you'll be able
to see them but mostly they are to do
with mostly they are to do with
prevention and for example the roll out
of a drug um called Glenn Capavir which
which was hailed as one of the biggest
breakthroughs against AIDS for many
years which came out last year. So if
you are perhaps I'm sure you and AI as
would be delighted if you're able to
look at that again.
>> Yes. Well well if if if if in fact this
is true which I doubt it is then we'll
fix it.
>> Okay fine. Um so
finally political your political
influence I wondered whether you have
decided yet how much you're going to
spend on uh the the upcoming midterms.
Is it you you spent a lot more money on
the last US election than you envisaged
when you were speaking here 3 years ago.
Are you going to continue to to spend at
that kind of level on future elections?
Um I think
um
in terms of political spending um I'm
going to do a lot less in the future.
>> And why is that?
>> I think I've done enough.
>> Is it is it because of blowback?
>> Well, if I see a reason to do political
spending in the future, I will do it. I
do not currently see a reason. Okay.
What about political influence beyond
the US? How often do you speak to
President Putin?
>> I don't speak to President Putin.
>> You've never spoken to President Putin?
>> Um I I was on a video call with him once
about 5 years ago.
>> Okay. That's the only thing I speak to
President President Putin.
>> Oh, you must I get it. Believe the
legacy.
>> Speak Actually, I've heard you I've
heard you speak about it. For example,
in your West Point speech, you said,
"Oh, I challenged President Putin to uh
um to was it an arm wrestle?" And I know
the Wall Street Journal has reported
your uh reported conversations. If
you're if you're saying they haven't
happened other than once, I'll take that
as red.
>> Is is is there a worst publication on
the face of the earth than the Wall
Street Journal? I wouldn't use that to
to line up my cage for paratroppings.
Um that that that newspaper is the worst
newspaper in the world. Um, and there's
and if you know if there's one newspaper
that should be pro- capitalist, it's the
one with Wall Street in the name. U, but
it isn't. So I I have the the very
lowest opinion of the Wall Street
Journal. Absolutely nonsense. And you
clearly believe the tribe that you've
written that you've read in those
papers.
>> I read I read very widely and I'm
putting these questions to you so that
you have an opportunity to respond to
them which you are and and for which
we're all grateful to hear your
responses. Okay, we are we are out of
time. So you mentioned you mentioned be
challenging I I did so on on the X
platform. I challenged Vladimir Putin to
single combat [laughter]
>> over the but I didn't talk to him. That
was a post on the ex platform.
>> That's why that's why I asked you and
you've and you've clarified and
explained. Thank you. That's that's why
I was asking whether you have had
reported conversations and and you've
said you haven't other than a video
call. Okay.
>> Typical legacy media lies.
>> Okay. Listen, I actually thought I might
give Grock the last word. Um because
when I asked Grock what your hardest
challenge is, it said the strain of
managing multiple highstake ventures
amid financial regulatory and public
relations crisis. And I wondered whether
you recognize that characterization and
whether you do think that this is a
pivotal year in your life.
Well, every year has been somewhat
pivotal and this one's no different.
Um so I mean in terms of interesting
things that probably are accomplished
this year uh the
getting Starship uh to
be fully reusable uh so that the that we
we catch both the booster and the ship
which would be the first fully reusable
orbital rocket ever in history which is
would be a profound breakthrough as the
essential breakthrough necessarily to
make life multilanetary and ultimately
become a space fairing civilization.
ation. Um we've got Neurolink which is
um now helped five uh patients uh res
restore um capability um using the
telepathy implant where they're able to
control a computer simply by thinking.
Um we'll be um doing our first um uh
patient to restore blind uh to restore
to restore sight with our blind sight uh
implant which is either end of this year
or early next. Um in fact that might
that first patient might be in UAE since
we have a relationship with UAE and the
Cleveland Clinic clinic there. Um the um
I I think running on the AI front we are
close to what you might call AGI um or
or or digital super intelligence. Um
I think we'll see we are we are seeing
an explosion in digital super
intelligence here. Um, and then we've
got at Tesla the what we'll be launching
unsupervised autonomy, basically
self-driving cars with no one in them in
Austin next month. So, it's it's a big
year for sure. Um,
many other things on the in the in the
works, too.
>> Okay.
>> I'm I'm a technologist first and
foremost.
>> Elon Musk, thank you very much for
joining us here at Qatar Economic Forum.
Thank you.
>> [music]